README.md, before:

# squid 🦑

A CLI application for interacting with LLM APIs (OpenAI-compatible) with support for streaming responses.

## Features

- 🤖 Chat with LLMs via OpenAI-compatible APIs
- 📄 Provide file context for AI analysis
- 🔍 AI-powered code reviews with language-specific prompts
- 🌊 Streaming support for real-time responses
- ⚙️ Configurable via environment variables
- 🔌 Works with LM Studio, OpenAI, and other compatible services

## Installation

```bash
cargo build --release
```

## Configuration

Create a `.env` file in the project root (or copy from `.env.example`):

```bash
# OpenAI API Configuration (for LM Studio or OpenAI)
API_URL=http://127.0.0.1:1234/v1
API_MODEL=local-model
API_KEY=not-needed

# Optional: Database configuration
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://localhost/mydb
```

### Configuration Options

- `API_URL`: The base URL for the API endpoint
  - Default: `http://127.0.0.1:1234/v1` (LM Studio)
  - For OpenAI: `https://api.openai.com/v1`
  
- `API_MODEL`: The model to use
  - Default: `local-model` (LM Studio uses whatever model is loaded)
  - For OpenAI: `gpt-4`, `gpt-3.5-turbo`, etc.
  
- `API_KEY`: Your API key
  - Default: `not-needed` (LM Studio doesn't require authentication)
  - For OpenAI: Your actual API key (e.g., `sk-...`)

## Usage

### Ask a Question

```bash
# Basic question (required)
cargo run -- ask "What is Rust?"

# With additional context using -m
cargo run -- ask "Explain Rust" -m "Focus on memory safety"
```

This will send the question to the LLM and display the complete response once it's ready.

### Ask with Streaming

```bash
cargo run -- ask --stream "Explain async/await in Rust"
# or use short flag
cargo run -- ask -s "Explain async/await in Rust"
```

This will stream the response in real-time, displaying tokens as they are generated.

### Ask About a File

```bash
# Basic file question
cargo run -- ask -f docs/sample.txt "What are the key features mentioned?"

# With streaming
cargo run -- ask -f code.rs -s "Explain what this code does"

# With additional context using -m
cargo run -- ask -f src/main.rs "What does this do?" -m "Focus on error handling"
```

This will read the file content and include it in the prompt, allowing the AI to answer questions based on the file's content.

### Review Code

```bash
# Review a file with language-specific prompts
cargo run -- review src/main.rs

# Stream the review in real-time
cargo run -- review app.ts --stream

# Focus on specific aspects
cargo run -- review styles.css -m "Focus on performance issues"
```

The review command automatically selects the appropriate review prompt based on file type:
- **Rust** (`.rs`) - Ownership, safety, idioms, error handling
- **TypeScript/JavaScript** (`.ts`, `.js`, `.tsx`, `.jsx`) - Type safety, modern features, security
- **HTML** (`.html`, `.htm`) - Semantics, accessibility, SEO
- **CSS** (`.css`, `.scss`, `.sass`) - Performance, responsive design, maintainability
- **Other files** - Generic code quality and best practices

See the **[Code Review Guide](docs/REVIEW_GUIDE.md)** for detailed usage and examples.

## Documentation

- **[Quick Start Guide](docs/QUICKSTART.md)** - Get started in 5 minutes
- **[Code Review Guide](docs/REVIEW_GUIDE.md)** - AI-powered code reviews with language-specific prompts
- **[Examples](docs/EXAMPLES.md)** - Comprehensive usage examples and workflows
- **[File Context Feature](docs/FILE_CONTEXT.md)** - Technical architecture documentation
- **[Changelog](docs/CHANGELOG.md)** - Version history and release notes
- **[Sample File](docs/sample.txt)** - Test file for trying out the file context feature
- **[Example Files](examples/README.md)** - Test files for code review prompts

### Testing Code Reviews

Try the code review feature with the provided example files:

```bash
# Test Rust review
cargo run -- review examples/example.rs

# Test TypeScript with streaming
cargo run -- review examples/example.ts --stream

# Test HTML accessibility
cargo run -- review examples/example.html -m "Focus on accessibility"

# Run all tests
./examples/test-reviews.sh
```

See **[examples/README.md](examples/README.md)** for details on each example file.

### Other Commands

```bash
# Initialize a project (placeholder)
cargo run -- init

# Run a command (placeholder)
cargo run -- run <command>
```

## Examples

### Using with LM Studio

1. Start LM Studio and load a model
2. Enable the local server (default: `http://127.0.0.1:1234`)
3. Set up your `.env`:
   ```bash
   API_URL=http://127.0.0.1:1234/v1
   API_MODEL=local-model
   API_KEY=not-needed
   ```
4. Run:
  ```bash
   cargo run -- ask -s "Write a hello world program in Rust"
   # Or with a file
   cargo run -- ask -f docs/sample.txt "What is this document about?"
   ```

### Using with OpenAI

1. Get your API key from OpenAI
2. Set up your `.env`:
   ```bash
   API_URL=https://api.openai.com/v1
   API_MODEL=gpt-4
   API_KEY=sk-your-api-key-here
   ```
3. Run:
   ```bash
   cargo run -- ask "Explain the benefits of Rust"
   # Or analyze a file
   cargo run -- ask -f mycode.rs "Review this code for potential improvements"
   ```

## License

Apache-2.0 License. See `LICENSE` file for details.

Commit message:

Add tool calling support for file read/write operations
- Introduce `read_file` and `write_file` tools for LLM
- Automatically handle tool calls in both streaming and non-streaming
  modes
- Update README and changelog with tool calling documentation
- Add `serde_json` dependency for tool argument parsing

README.md, after:

# squid 🦑

A CLI application for interacting with LLM APIs (OpenAI-compatible) with support for streaming responses.

## Features

- 🤖 Chat with LLMs via OpenAI-compatible APIs
- 📄 Provide file context for AI analysis
- 🔍 AI-powered code reviews with language-specific prompts
- 🔧 Tool calling support (file read/write operations)
- 🌊 Streaming support for real-time responses
- ⚙️ Configurable via environment variables
- 🔌 Works with LM Studio, OpenAI, and other compatible services

## Installation

```bash
cargo build --release
```

## Configuration

Create a `.env` file in the project root (or copy from `.env.example`):

```bash
# OpenAI API Configuration (for LM Studio or OpenAI)
API_URL=http://127.0.0.1:1234/v1
API_MODEL=local-model
API_KEY=not-needed

# Optional: Database configuration
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://localhost/mydb
```

### Configuration Options

- `API_URL`: The base URL for the API endpoint
  - Default: `http://127.0.0.1:1234/v1` (LM Studio)
  - For OpenAI: `https://api.openai.com/v1`
  
- `API_MODEL`: The model to use
  - Default: `local-model` (LM Studio uses whatever model is loaded)
  - For OpenAI: `gpt-4`, `gpt-3.5-turbo`, etc.
  
- `API_KEY`: Your API key
  - Default: `not-needed` (LM Studio doesn't require authentication)
  - For OpenAI: Your actual API key (e.g., `sk-...`)

## Usage

### Ask a Question

```bash
# Basic question (required)
cargo run -- ask "What is Rust?"

# With additional context using -m
cargo run -- ask "Explain Rust" -m "Focus on memory safety"
```

This will send the question to the LLM and display the complete response once it's ready.

### Ask with Streaming

```bash
cargo run -- ask --stream "Explain async/await in Rust"
# or use short flag
cargo run -- ask -s "Explain async/await in Rust"
```

This will stream the response in real-time, displaying tokens as they are generated.

### Ask About a File

```bash
# Basic file question
cargo run -- ask -f docs/sample.txt "What are the key features mentioned?"

# With streaming
cargo run -- ask -f code.rs -s "Explain what this code does"

# With additional context using -m
cargo run -- ask -f src/main.rs "What does this do?" -m "Focus on error handling"
```

This will read the file content and include it in the prompt, allowing the AI to answer questions based on the file's content.

### Review Code

```bash
# Review a file with language-specific prompts
cargo run -- review src/main.rs

# Stream the review in real-time
cargo run -- review app.ts --stream

# Focus on specific aspects
cargo run -- review styles.css -m "Focus on performance issues"
```

The review command automatically selects the appropriate review prompt based on file type:
- **Rust** (`.rs`) - Ownership, safety, idioms, error handling
- **TypeScript/JavaScript** (`.ts`, `.js`, `.tsx`, `.jsx`) - Type safety, modern features, security
- **HTML** (`.html`, `.htm`) - Semantics, accessibility, SEO
- **CSS** (`.css`, `.scss`, `.sass`) - Performance, responsive design, maintainability
- **Other files** - Generic code quality and best practices

See the **[Code Review Guide](docs/REVIEW_GUIDE.md)** for detailed usage and examples.

### Tool Calling (Automatic)

The LLM can automatically use tools when needed:

```bash
# LLM can read files during conversation
cargo run -- ask "Read the README.md file and summarize it"

# LLM can write files
cargo run -- ask "Create a hello.txt file with 'Hello, World!'"

# Works with streaming too
cargo run -- ask -s "Read Cargo.toml and list all dependencies"
```

Tools are invoked automatically - no special configuration needed.

## Documentation

- **[Quick Start Guide](docs/QUICKSTART.md)** - Get started in 5 minutes
- **[Code Review Guide](docs/REVIEW_GUIDE.md)** - AI-powered code reviews with language-specific prompts
- **[Examples](docs/EXAMPLES.md)** - Comprehensive usage examples and workflows
- **[File Context Feature](docs/FILE_CONTEXT.md)** - Technical architecture documentation
- **[Changelog](docs/CHANGELOG.md)** - Version history and release notes
- **[Sample File](docs/sample.txt)** - Test file for trying out the file context feature
- **[Example Files](examples/README.md)** - Test files for code review prompts

### Testing Code Reviews

Try the code review feature with the provided example files:

```bash
# Test Rust review
cargo run -- review examples/example.rs

# Test TypeScript with streaming
cargo run -- review examples/example.ts --stream

# Test HTML accessibility
cargo run -- review examples/example.html -m "Focus on accessibility"

# Run all tests
./examples/test-reviews.sh
```

See **[examples/README.md](examples/README.md)** for details on each example file.

### Other Commands

```bash
# Initialize a project (placeholder)
cargo run -- init

# Run a command (placeholder)
cargo run -- run <command>
```

## Examples

### Using with LM Studio

1. Start LM Studio and load a model
2. Enable the local server (default: `http://127.0.0.1:1234`)
3. Set up your `.env`:
   ```bash
   API_URL=http://127.0.0.1:1234/v1
   API_MODEL=local-model
   API_KEY=not-needed
   ```
4. Run:
  ```bash
   cargo run -- ask -s "Write a hello world program in Rust"
   # Or with a file
   cargo run -- ask -f docs/sample.txt "What is this document about?"
   ```

### Using with OpenAI

1. Get your API key from OpenAI
2. Set up your `.env`:
   ```bash
   API_URL=https://api.openai.com/v1
   API_MODEL=gpt-4
   API_KEY=sk-your-api-key-here
   ```
3. Run:
   ```bash
   cargo run -- ask "Explain the benefits of Rust"
   # Or analyze a file
   cargo run -- ask -f mycode.rs "Review this code for potential improvements"
   ```

## License

Apache-2.0 License. See `LICENSE` file for details.
