src/assets/tools.md, before:

## Available Tools

You have access to these tools:

1. **read_file** - Read file contents from the filesystem
2. **write_file** - Write content to files  
3. **grep** - Search for regex patterns in files/directories
4. **now** - Get current date and time (RFC 3339 format, UTC or local)

## When to Use Tools

**Be proactive** - Use tools whenever they help answer the question accurately.

**Common triggers:**
- User mentions a filename → `read_file`
- "What's in...", "analyze...", "review..." → `read_file`
- "Create file", "save to...", "write..." → `write_file`
- "Search for", "find all", "where is..." → `grep`
- "What time", "current date", "datetime" → `now`

**Examples:**
- "Read Cargo.toml" → read_file
- "What dependencies does this use?" → read_file Cargo.toml or package.json
- "Create hello.txt with 'Hello World'" → write_file
- "Find all TODO comments in src" → grep with pattern "TODO" and path "src"
- "What time is it?" → now with timezone "local"

## Critical Guidelines

1. **Proactive usage**: If a question relates to files, read them first before answering
2. **Multiple files**: Read as many files as needed for complete answers
3. **Relative paths**: Try common locations if path not specified (./file, src/file, etc.)
4. **Security**: User approves each execution, so use tools freely when appropriate

### Grep Results - CRITICAL

**The grep tool returns pre-formatted text** in `{"content": "..."}` format:
```
Found X matches for pattern 'Y' in Z:

  - file:line — matched content
  - file:line — matched content
```

**DISPLAY THE ENTIRE CONTENT EXACTLY AS PROVIDED.**

Common mistakes to avoid:
- ❌ Saying "no matches found" when the content shows matches
- ❌ Summarizing results instead of showing all matches
- ❌ Ignoring the formatted content

**YOU MUST:**
- Show every single match from the content
- Display file paths and line numbers exactly as formatted
- Only say "no matches" if the response explicitly says "No matches found"

## Response Style

- Analyze file contents thoroughly before responding
- Confirm successful file writes
- Explain errors and suggest alternatives if tools fail
- **For grep: Show ALL results in full** - don't summarize or truncate

Commit message:

Add tool permissions (allow/deny lists) feature and docs
- Introduce permissions config for tool allow/deny lists
- Update README, SECURITY.md, and CHANGELOG with usage and examples
- Add tests/test-permissions.sh for interactive and config-based
  permission flows
- Update .squidignore to ignore common binary files
- Update tools.md to document permission behavior for LLM

src/assets/tools.md, after:

## Available Tools

You have access to these tools:

1. **read_file** - Read file contents from the filesystem
2. **write_file** - Write content to files  
3. **grep** - Search for regex patterns in files/directories
4. **now** - Get current date and time (RFC 3339 format, UTC or local)

**Note on permissions:** Some tools may be pre-approved (allowed list) or blocked (deny list) based on user configuration. The `now` tool is typically allowed by default. If a tool is denied, you'll receive an error without user interaction.

## When to Use Tools

**Be proactive** - Use tools whenever they help answer the question accurately.

**Common triggers:**
- User mentions a filename → `read_file`
- "What's in...", "analyze...", "review..." → `read_file`
- "Create file", "save to...", "write..." → `write_file`
- "Search for", "find all", "where is..." → `grep`
- "What time", "current date", "datetime" → `now`

**Examples:**
- "Read Cargo.toml" → read_file
- "What dependencies does this use?" → read_file Cargo.toml or package.json
- "Create hello.txt with 'Hello World'" → write_file
- "Find all TODO comments in src" → grep with pattern "TODO" and path "src"
- "What time is it?" → now with timezone "local"

## Critical Guidelines

1. **Proactive usage**: If a question relates to files, read them first before answering
2. **Multiple files**: Read as many files as needed for complete answers
3. **Relative paths**: Try common locations if path not specified (./file, src/file, etc.)
4. **Permissions**: User may approve once, always allow, or block tools. If blocked, you'll get an error - adapt your response accordingly

### Grep Results - CRITICAL

**The grep tool returns pre-formatted text** in `{"content": "..."}` format:
```
Found X matches for pattern 'Y' in Z:

  - file:line — matched content
  - file:line — matched content
```

**DISPLAY THE ENTIRE CONTENT EXACTLY AS PROVIDED.**

Common mistakes to avoid:
- ❌ Saying "no matches found" when the content shows matches
- ❌ Summarizing results instead of showing all matches
- ❌ Ignoring the formatted content

**YOU MUST:**
- Show every single match from the content
- Display file paths and line numbers exactly as formatted
- Only say "no matches" if the response explicitly says "No matches found"

## Response Style

- Analyze file contents thoroughly before responding
- Confirm successful file writes
- Explain errors and suggest alternatives if tools fail
- **For grep: Show ALL results in full** - don't summarize or truncate
