docs/README.md, before:

# Squid Documentation

Welcome to the squid CLI documentation! This directory contains comprehensive guides and references for using squid.

## Getting Started

New to squid? Start here:

- **[Quick Start Guide](QUICKSTART.md)** - Get up and running in 5 minutes
- **[Examples](EXAMPLES.md)** - Real-world usage examples and workflows

## Documentation

### User Guides

- **[QUICKSTART.md](QUICKSTART.md)** - Quick start guide for new users
  - Prerequisites and setup
  - Basic usage examples
  - Common troubleshooting
  - Tips for better results

- **[REVIEW_GUIDE.md](REVIEW_GUIDE.md)** - AI-powered code review guide
  - Language-specific review prompts
  - File type support (Rust, TypeScript, HTML, CSS, etc.)
  - Usage examples and best practices
  - Testing with example files

- **[EXAMPLES.md](EXAMPLES.md)** - Comprehensive usage examples
  - Basic and advanced examples
  - Practical workflows
  - Best practices
  - File type support

- **[FILE_CONTEXT.md](FILE_CONTEXT.md)** - File context feature architecture
  - How it works
  - Technical details
  - Best practices

- **[CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md)** - Version history and release notes

## Resources

- **[sample.txt](sample.txt)** - Sample file for testing the file context feature

## Quick Reference

### Basic Commands

```bash
# Ask a question
squid ask "What is Rust?"

# Ask with file context
squid ask --file docs/sample.txt "What is this about?"

# Stream the response
squid ask -s "Explain async/await"

# File context + streaming
squid ask -f src/main.rs -s "Explain this code"

# Review code
squid review src/main.rs

# Review with streaming
squid review app.ts --stream

# Focused review
squid review styles.css -m "Focus on performance"
```

### Help

```bash
# General help
squid --help

# Command-specific help
squid ask --help
squid review --help
```

## File Context Feature

The file context feature allows you to provide files to the AI for analysis. Simply use the `--file` or `-f` flag:

```bash
squid ask --file path/to/file.txt "Your question about the file"
```

Supported file types:
- Source code (.rs, .py, .js, .go, etc.)
- Documentation (.md, .txt, .rst)
- Configuration (.toml, .json, .yaml)
- Data files (.csv, .tsv, .log)
- Any text-based file

## Configuration

Squid uses environment variables for configuration. Create a `.env` file in the project root:

```env
# For LM Studio (local)
API_URL=http://127.0.0.1:1234/v1
API_MODEL=local-model
API_KEY=not-needed

# For OpenAI
API_URL=https://api.openai.com/v1
API_MODEL=gpt-4
API_KEY=sk-your-key-here
```

## Need Help?

1. Check the [Quick Start Guide](QUICKSTART.md)
2. Browse the [Examples](EXAMPLES.md)
3. Read the [Code Review Guide](REVIEW_GUIDE.md) for code reviews
4. Try the [example files](../examples/README.md) for testing
5. Enable debug logging: `RUST_LOG=debug squid ask ...`

## Contributing

Found an issue or have a suggestion? Check the documentation in this directory.

---

**Project**: squid 🦑  
**Repository**: [Back to main README](../README.md)

Commit message:

Update ask command to support additional context with -m flag
Add a --message/-m option to the ask command for extra context or
instructions. Update documentation and usage examples to reflect the new
flag. The question and message are combined before sending to the LLM.

docs/README.md, after:

# Squid Documentation

Welcome to the squid CLI documentation! This directory contains comprehensive guides and references for using squid.

## Getting Started

New to squid? Start here:

- **[Quick Start Guide](QUICKSTART.md)** - Get up and running in 5 minutes
- **[Examples](EXAMPLES.md)** - Real-world usage examples and workflows

## Documentation

### User Guides

- **[QUICKSTART.md](QUICKSTART.md)** - Quick start guide for new users
  - Prerequisites and setup
  - Basic usage examples
  - Common troubleshooting
  - Tips for better results

- **[REVIEW_GUIDE.md](REVIEW_GUIDE.md)** - AI-powered code review guide
  - Language-specific review prompts
  - File type support (Rust, TypeScript, HTML, CSS, etc.)
  - Usage examples and best practices
  - Testing with example files

- **[EXAMPLES.md](EXAMPLES.md)** - Comprehensive usage examples
  - Basic and advanced examples
  - Practical workflows
  - Best practices
  - File type support

- **[FILE_CONTEXT.md](FILE_CONTEXT.md)** - File context feature architecture
  - How it works
  - Technical details
  - Best practices

- **[CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md)** - Version history and release notes

## Resources

- **[sample.txt](sample.txt)** - Sample file for testing the file context feature

## Quick Reference

### Basic Commands

```bash
# Ask a question (required)
squid ask "What is Rust?"

# With additional context using -m
squid ask "Explain Rust" -m "Focus on memory safety"

# Ask with file context
squid ask -f docs/sample.txt "What is this about?"

# Stream the response
squid ask -s "Explain async/await"

# File context + streaming
squid ask -f src/main.rs -s "Explain this code"

# File with additional context
squid ask -f src/main.rs "Explain this" -m "Focus on error handling"

# Review code
squid review src/main.rs

# Review with streaming
squid review app.ts --stream

# Focused review
squid review styles.css -m "Focus on performance"
```

### Help

```bash
# General help
squid --help

# Command-specific help
squid ask --help
squid review --help
```

## File Context Feature

The file context feature allows you to provide files to the AI for analysis. Simply use the `--file` or `-f` flag:

```bash
squid ask --file path/to/file.txt "Your question about the file"
```

Supported file types:
- Source code (.rs, .py, .js, .go, etc.)
- Documentation (.md, .txt, .rst)
- Configuration (.toml, .json, .yaml)
- Data files (.csv, .tsv, .log)
- Any text-based file

## Configuration

Squid uses environment variables for configuration. Create a `.env` file in the project root:

```env
# For LM Studio (local)
API_URL=http://127.0.0.1:1234/v1
API_MODEL=local-model
API_KEY=not-needed

# For OpenAI
API_URL=https://api.openai.com/v1
API_MODEL=gpt-4
API_KEY=sk-your-key-here
```

## Need Help?

1. Check the [Quick Start Guide](QUICKSTART.md)
2. Browse the [Examples](EXAMPLES.md)
3. Read the [Code Review Guide](REVIEW_GUIDE.md) for code reviews
4. Try the [example files](../examples/README.md) for testing
5. Enable debug logging: `RUST_LOG=debug squid ask ...`

## Contributing

Found an issue or have a suggestion? Check the documentation in this directory.

---

**Project**: squid 🦑  
**Repository**: [Back to main README](../README.md)
