docs/UI_EXAMPLES.md, before:

# UI Examples

This document shows examples of Squid's enhanced terminal UI.

## Assistant Responses

All responses from the AI assistant are now prefixed with the squid emoji for personality:

```
$ squid ask "What is Rust?"

🦑: Rust is a systems programming language that focuses on safety, speed, 
and concurrency. It achieves memory safety without using a garbage collector...
```

## Tool Approval Prompts

Tool approval prompts now feature styled, colorful formatting with emoji icons.

### Reading a File

```
🦑 Tool Request wants to read a file
  📄 File: src/main.rs
→ Y to allow, N to deny [y/N]
```

### Writing a File

```
🦑 Tool Request wants to write to a file
  📄 File: config.json
  📝 Content preview:
{
  "api_url": "http://localhost:1234/v1",
  "model": "llama-3.2"
}
→ Y to allow, N to deny [y/N]
```

For large files, the content preview is truncated:

```
🦑 Tool Request wants to write to a file
  📄 File: large_document.md
  📝 Content preview:
# Large Document

This is a very long document with lots of content that will be truncated... (2048 bytes total)
→ Y to allow, N to deny [y/N]
```

### Searching Files (grep)

```
🦑 Tool Request wants to search files
  🔍 Pattern: TODO
  📂 Path: src
→ Y to allow, N to deny [y/N]
```

## Color Scheme

The terminal output uses a consistent color scheme:

- **Cyan Bold**: Headers and section titles ("Tool Request")
- **Yellow**: Actions being performed ("read a file", "write to a file")
- **Green**: File and directory paths
- **Magenta**: Search patterns
- **Dim**: Preview content
- **Red Bold**: "N" (No/Deny) indicator
- **Green Bold**: "Y" (Yes/Allow) indicator

## Emoji Guide

- 🦑 - Squid assistant / Tool requests
- 📄 - File operations
- 📂 - Directory/path operations
- 🔍 - Search operations
- 📝 - Content preview
- → - Action prompt indicator

## Interactive Examples

### Example 1: Code Review with Tool Call

```
$ squid review src/main.rs

🦑 Tool Request wants to read a file
  📄 File: src/main.rs
→ Y to allow, N to deny [y/N] y

🦑: I'll review this code for you.

The main.rs file shows a well-structured CLI application using Clap...
```

### Example 2: Ask with Multiple Tool Calls

```
$ squid ask "What dependencies does this project use?"

🦑 Tool Request wants to read a file
  📄 File: Cargo.toml
→ Y to allow, N to deny [y/N] y

🦑: Based on the Cargo.toml file, this project uses the following dependencies:

1. **async-openai** (v0.32) - For communicating with OpenAI-compatible APIs
2. **clap** (v4.5) - Command-line argument parsing with derive macros
3. **console** (v0.15) - Terminal styling and colors
...
```

### Example 3: Search Operation

```
$ squid ask "Find all TODO comments in the code"

🦑 Tool Request wants to search files
  🔍 Pattern: TODO
  📂 Path: src
→ Y to allow, N to deny [y/N] y

🦑: Found 3 matches for pattern 'TODO' in src:

  - src/main.rs:145 — // TODO: Add support for batch processing
  - src/tools.rs:89 — // TODO: Implement file watching
  - src/config.rs:23 — // TODO: Add validation for API URLs
```

### Example 4: Declining a Tool Call

```
$ squid ask "Delete all temporary files"

🦑 Tool Request wants to search files
  🔍 Pattern: *.tmp
  📂 Path: .
→ Y to allow, N to deny [y/N] n

🦑: I wasn't able to search for the files since the operation was declined. 
Would you like to manually specify which files to delete, or would you prefer 
a different approach?
```

## Non-Interactive Mode

When running in a non-interactive environment (CI/CD, scripts), the prompts 
gracefully fall back with appropriate error messages:

```
Error: Failed to get user approval: not a tty
```

## Terminal Compatibility

The enhanced UI works with:
- ✅ Modern terminals with color support (iTerm2, Terminal.app, Windows Terminal, etc.)
- ✅ tmux and screen sessions
- ✅ SSH sessions
- ✅ VS Code integrated terminal
- ⚠️  Terminals without color support will show plain text (graceful degradation)

## Accessibility

- Color is supplementary - information is also conveyed through emoji and text
- Help text clearly indicates keyboard shortcuts
- Default action is always "No" for safety
- All prompts are screen-reader friendly

Commit message:

Make tool approval prompts conversational and personal
Include filename in ask command context for LLM

Change default log level from info to error

Update docs and examples for new prompt and log level behavior

docs/UI_EXAMPLES.md, after:

# UI Examples

This document shows examples of Squid's enhanced terminal UI.

## Assistant Responses

All responses from the AI assistant are now prefixed with the squid emoji for personality:

```
$ squid ask "What is Rust?"

🦑: Rust is a systems programming language that focuses on safety, speed, 
and concurrency. It achieves memory safety without using a garbage collector...
```

## Tool Approval Prompts

Tool approval prompts now feature styled, colorful formatting with emoji icons.

### Reading a File

```
🦑 Can I read this file?
  📄 File: src/main.rs
→ Y to allow, N to deny [y/N]
```

### Writing a File

```
🦑 Can I write to this file?
  📄 File: config.json
  📝 Content preview:
{
  "api_url": "http://localhost:1234/v1",
  "model": "llama-3.2"
}
→ Y to allow, N to deny [y/N]
```

For large files, the content preview is truncated:

```
🦑 Can I write to this file?
  📄 File: large_document.md
  📝 Content preview:
# Large Document

This is a very long document with lots of content that will be truncated... (2048 bytes total)
→ Y to allow, N to deny [y/N]
```

### Searching Files (grep)

```
🦑 Can I search for this pattern?
  🔍 Pattern: TODO
  📂 Path: src
→ Y to allow, N to deny [y/N]
```

## Color Scheme

The terminal output uses a consistent color scheme:

- **Cyan Bold**: Headers and section titles
- **Yellow**: Actions being performed ("read this file", "write to this file")
- **Green**: File and directory paths
- **Magenta**: Search patterns
- **Dim**: Preview content
- **Red Bold**: "N" (No/Deny) indicator
- **Green Bold**: "Y" (Yes/Allow) indicator

## Emoji Guide

- 🦑 - Squid assistant / Tool requests
- 📄 - File operations
- 📂 - Directory/path operations
- 🔍 - Search operations
- 📝 - Content preview
- → - Action prompt indicator

## Interactive Examples

### Example 1: Code Review with Tool Call

```
$ squid review src/main.rs

🦑 Can I read this file?
  📄 File: src/main.rs
→ Y to allow, N to deny [y/N] y

🦑: I'll review this code for you.

The main.rs file shows a well-structured CLI application using Clap...
```

### Example 2: Ask with Multiple Tool Calls

```
$ squid ask "What dependencies does this project use?"

🦑 Tool Request wants to read a file
  📄 File: Cargo.toml
→ Y to allow, N to deny [y/N] y

🦑: Based on the Cargo.toml file, this project uses the following dependencies:

1. **async-openai** (v0.32) - For communicating with OpenAI-compatible APIs
2. **clap** (v4.5) - Command-line argument parsing with derive macros
3. **console** (v0.15) - Terminal styling and colors
...
```

### Example 3: Search Operation

```
$ squid ask "Find all TODO comments in the code"

🦑 Tool Request wants to search files
  🔍 Pattern: TODO
  📂 Path: src
→ Y to allow, N to deny [y/N] y

🦑: Found 3 matches for pattern 'TODO' in src:

  - src/main.rs:145 — // TODO: Add support for batch processing
  - src/tools.rs:89 — // TODO: Implement file watching
  - src/config.rs:23 — // TODO: Add validation for API URLs
```

### Example 4: Declining a Tool Call

```
$ squid ask "Delete all temporary files"

🦑 Tool Request wants to search files
  🔍 Pattern: *.tmp
  📂 Path: .
→ Y to allow, N to deny [y/N] n

🦑: I wasn't able to search for the files since the operation was declined. 
Would you like to manually specify which files to delete, or would you prefer 
a different approach?
```

## Non-Interactive Mode

When running in a non-interactive environment (CI/CD, scripts), the prompts 
gracefully fall back with appropriate error messages:

```
Error: Failed to get user approval: not a tty
```

## Terminal Compatibility

The enhanced UI works with:
- ✅ Modern terminals with color support (iTerm2, Terminal.app, Windows Terminal, etc.)
- ✅ tmux and screen sessions
- ✅ SSH sessions
- ✅ VS Code integrated terminal
- ⚠️  Terminals without color support will show plain text (graceful degradation)

## Accessibility

- Color is supplementary - information is also conveyed through emoji and text
- Help text clearly indicates keyboard shortcuts
- Default action is always "No" for safety
- All prompts are screen-reader friendly
